# 1 Introduction
## 1.1 What is a package manager?
A package is a compressed file archive containing all the files required to install, uninstall and update a particular software or application.

A package manager allows the user to install, upgrade or remove software packages on their OS, in other words, to **manage packages**.
It is similar to an app store for a smartphone, or the Windows Store for example.
One of the key differences between those and Nest (and most package managers), is that the upgrading must be done manually.
On a smartphone, the applications are usually automatically upgraded.
With Nest, it's up to the user to upgrade their installed packages whenever they want.

Currently, to use Nest, one must use its Command Line Interface (CLI).
This might sound intimidating for someone who has never seen a terminal or typed any command before, but if that's the case, don't worry! This guide is here to help you feel at home.

## 1.2 Packages and dependencies
It is common for a package to require other ones to work properly.
For example, let's take a software that allows its users to send messages to each other, over the Internet.
That software will need a way to send messages over the Internet.
To do so, it will either implement its own solution, or use an existing library for that purpose.
In the latter case, the software **requires** that library, because without it, the messages simply can't be sent.
In other words, that library is a **dependency** of the software.

Whenever you install a package via Nest, it will (like most package managers) check if the package in question has any dependencies.
If it does, Nest will install the dependencies that aren't already installed.
In other words, when asking Nest to install a package, Nest will install other packages alongside it to satisfy its dependencies.

## 1.3 Repositories
Packages are stored in repositories.
Each repository has one or more categories, and each package belongs to a specific one of these.
Categories are used to distinguish between packages that have the same name, but have different purposes.
This means that two packages with the same name and in the same repository but not in the same category can coexist without any issue.

`stable` is the repository enabled by default for Nest.
It contains stable packages that are safe to use, and is maintained by the Raven-OS team.

## 1.4 Package name syntax
In Nest, the package names are structured in the following way:

```repository::category/package#version```

If no version is specified, the latest one available is taken by default.

However, parts of this syntax may be omitted if there's only one package that matches the remaining criteria.
The only real mandatory part of this syntax is the package name itself.
The other parts are only necessary to resolve ambiguities.
That means you can use:
* `repository::package`, if that package is the only one with its name in the whole repository.
* `category/package`, if the package's name is unique in this specific category, and if that category belongs to a single repository used by Nest.
* `package`, if that package is the only one with its name amongst all the repositories used by Nest.

If you're not sure on the category, or the name of a package, you can look it up on the [Raven-OS official website](https://stable.raven-os.org).
It lists all the packages in the repository `stable` of Nest, as well as the category they belong to, the latest version released, and a short description of what they provide.

## Conclusion
[//]: # (TODO: add link to chapter 2)
And that's it for the introduction!
Those were some fundamental concepts, and we strongly recommend you to make sure you understand them before moving on to the [next chapter](), where we'll start detailing how to use `nest`.