# 1 Introduction
## 1.1 What is a package manager?
A package is a compressed file archive containing all of the files coming with a particular software or application.

A package manager allows the user to install, upgrade or remove software packages on their OS, in other words, to **manage the packages**.
It is similar to an app store for any smartphone, or the Windows Store for example. One of the main differences between those and Nest (and most package managers), is that the upgrading must be manually commanded.
On a smartphone, the applications are usually automatically upgraded overnight when you're charging your phone, if an update is available.
Here, it's up to the user to upgrade their installed packages whenever they want or need to.

To use Nest, the only interface available for now is the Command Line Interface (CLI).
It might be a bit nerve racking for someone who has never seen a terminal or typed any command before, but don't worry, this guide is here to help you feel comfortable!

## 1.2 Packages and dependencies
Often, a package requires another one to work properly.
Say, for example, someone develops a messenging application, which relies on encrypted messages to provide communication between two users.
This application will probably use a package, written by someone else, to encrypt the messages sent with their app.
We say that such messenging application **depends** on that encryption package, because without that package, the application would probably not work at all.
Now, if you want that application to work properly, you'll also need to install the package they used to encrypt messages.

If a package is required by another one to work properly, that package is called a **dependency**.
Whenever you install a package via a package manager (and Nest as well), it will check if the package in question has any dependencies.
And if it does, it will install only the dependencies that are not already installed on the OS.
So, when you install a package, don't be surprised if you see other packages getting installed too, they are just dependencies needed for that package to work properly.

## 1.3 Repositories
Packages are stored in repositories.
Think of a repository as a big folder containing the packages.
Within each repository, there are a certain number of categories, and a package has to belong to one, and only one of them.
The categories are a way to distinguish packages with the same name, but having different purposes.
This means that we can have two packages with the same name, in the same repository but not in the same category, coexisting together, without any issue.

[//]: # (TODO: Add link to the section 3.1)
For now, all you need to know is that there are official and unofficial repositories for Nest.
Only `stable`, which is an official repository, is enabled by default.
This repository contains all the packages that are considered stable and safe to use.
The repositories will be more detailed in [a future section]().

## 1.4 Package name syntax
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.3)
The packages names are represented in the following way by Nest: `repository::category/package#[version|version_req]` (*version_req* means *version requirement*).
The concept of version requirement will be detailed in [this section]().
If you don't specify any version or version requirement, the latest one available will be installed by default.

However, most parts of this syntax may be omitted if it matches **one** and only **one** package.
In a way, the only real mandatory part of this syntax is the package name itself. That means you can use:
* `repository::package`, if that package is the only one with its name in the whole repository.
* `category/package`, if the package's name is unique in this specific category, and if that category belongs to a single repository used by Nest.
* `package`, if that package is the only one with its name amongst all the repositories used by Nest.

If you're not sure on the repository, category, or name of a package, you can check on [Raven-OS official website](https://packages.raven-os.org).
It lists all the packages in the official repositories for Nest.
Meaning you can see the repository and category they belong to, the latest version released for Nest, and a short description of what they are for.

## Conclusion
[//]: # (TODO: add link to chapter 2)
And that's it for the introduction!
Those were some basic concepts, and we strongly recommend you to understand them before moving on to the [next chapter](), where we'll start detailing how to use `nest`.