# 2 nest
In this chapter, we will detail how to use the command `nest`.
As explained before, this command is mainly designed for ease of use.
However, anyone can use it.

## 2.1 nest commands
### 2.1.1 Updating the list of available packages with `nest pull`
Nest uses a local cache to store the list of available packages you can install.
When you're installing a package, Nest will search for it in this cache.
The command to update the cache containing the list of available packages, is `nest pull`.

Example:
```
$ nest pull
1 pending transaction:

    pull stable

Would you like to apply this transaction? [Yes/no] y
Pulling stable...
Successfully pulled 1 repository
```

> Attention
>
> Nest won't be able to install packages that are not in your cache, so it's really important to keep your cache up-to-date as often as possible.
> This also means that if a new version of a package comes out after the last time you updated the cache, Nest won't install it.
> It's recommended to run `nest pull` before installing and before upgrading a package.

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.1.3)
> Common issue
> * `error: unable to pull repository stable: no working mirror found`
>
> Basically, this error means that `nest` couldn't pull the repository `stable`.
> The most common reason is that there's an issue with your Internet connection.
> It might also be that all the mirrors in the repositories configuration file are down, so you need to add working mirrors to the list.
> You can have more information about this file and mirrors in [the section 3.1.3]().

### 2.1.2 Installing and uninstalling a package
#### Installing a package with `nest install`
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 1.4)
`nest install` is the command to install a package.
To do so, run `nest install <package>` in a terminal.
Don't forget to use the syntax explained in [section 1.4]() for the package name!

`nest` will print an error message if more than one package matches the syntax you wrote.
In that case, you should first refine your package name.
To help you with that, you can go on [the official Raven-OS website](https://stable.raven-os.org), which will show you all the packages in the `stable` repository, with their category and all versions released.

Example:
```
$ nest install ncurses6-bin
4 pending transactions:

 install stable::sys-lib/libncurses6-term#6.1.0
 install stable::sys-lib/libc6#2.28.0
 install stable::sys-lib/libncursestw6#6.1.0
 install stable::sys-bin/ncurses6-bin#6.1.0

Would you like to apply these transactions? [Yes/no] y
Downloading packages...
Successfully installed stable::sys-lib/libncurses6-term#6.1.0
Successfully installed stable::sys-lib/libc6#2.28.0
Successfully installed stable::sys-lib/libncursestw6#6.1.0
Successfully installed stable::sys-bin/ncurses6-bin#6.1.0
```

As you can see, the last package listed above is the package you initially asked to install, and above it are all the dependencies that it has and that aren't already installed.

#### Uninstalling a package with `nest uninstall`
The command to uninstall a package is `nest uninstall <package>`.

It will remove the given package, its binaries, libraries, manual pages...
Basically everything that was installed with it, but it will keep all the files generated by the package itself.
So, if this package was a text editor for example, the files you created or edited with it won't be altered if you uninstall the package.

However, this may not remove all the package's dependencies, because some of them might still be used by another installed package.

Example:
```
$ nest uninstall bash
2 pending transactions:

  remove stable::shell/bash#5.0.0
  remove stable::sys-lib/libncurses6#6.1.0

Would you like to apply these transactions? [Yes/no] y
Removing stable::shell/bash#5.0.0...
Successfully uninstalled stable::shell/bash#5.0.0
Removing stable::sys-lib/libncurses6#6.1.0...
Successfully uninstalled stable::sys-lib/libncurses6#6.1.0
```

> Common issues
> * `error: no package found for requirement <package>`
>
> This error could mean that you want to install a package that isn't in Nest's cache, so, `nest` can't find it and install it.
> Try running `nest pull` and then running your command again.
>
> Another possible explanation is that the package you wanted to install can't be found.
> You should check the package name syntax, in case you mistyped the repository, the category, the package name itself or the version.
> You can always check [on Raven-OS website](https://stable.raven-os.org/) as mentioned above, to make sure you haven't made any mistakes.
>
> * `error: unable to find an installed package matching <package>`
>
> The package you wanted to uninstall can't be found.
> Check the package name syntax for any typo and ensure you actually have this package installed.

#### 2.1.3 List all installed packages with `nest list`
To see the list of all installed packages, use the command `nest list`.
By default, this command won't print the dependencies of the installed packages.
To do so, add the flag `--with-deps`.

Example:

```
$ nest list
stable::kernel/linux
stable::shell/bash
stable::sys-bin/ncurses6-bin
[etc]
```

### 2.2 Summary
This concludes this chapter dedicated to `nest`!
We saw how to update Nest's cache using `nest pull`, and how to install and uninstall packages using respectively `nest install` and `nest uninstall`.
Now that you are familiar with `nest`, the next chapter will explain some advanced concepts related to `nest`, which will help understanding how `nest` works, but aren't strictly needed for a daily use of `nest`.
Readers interested in `finest` should read the next chapter as well, because those concepts are important to understand how `finest` works.