# 3 Advanced concepts
In this chapter, we will detail some advanced concepts related to `nest`, which will help understanding how `nest` works, but aren't strictly needed for a daily use of `nest`.
Readers interested in `finest` should read this chapter, because those concepts are important to understand how `finest` works.

## 3.1 Managing repositories
### 3.1.1 The official repositories
The official repositories are the ones maintained by the Raven-OS team.
For now, only one is available: `stable`, which is the one enabled by default when installing Nest.
It contains all the stable and safe-to-use packages for Nest, and is maintained by the Raven-OS team.

### 3.1.2 The unofficial repositories
There are also unofficial repositories for Nest which are not vetted by Raven-OS, so caution is advised.
It is up to you to decide whether to trust their maintainers.

### 3.1.3 Configuring repositories
The repositories configuration is specified in the configuration file of Nest (`/etc/nest/config.toml`).
It should ressemble something like this:

```toml
# Stable repository
[repositories.stable]
mirrors = ["https://stable.raven-os.org"]

# Beta repository (uncomment to enable)
# [repositories.beta]
# mirrors = ["https://beta.raven-os.org"]

# Unstable repository (uncomment to enable)
# [repositories.unstable]
# mirrors = ["https://unstable.raven-os.org"]
```

A mirror is basically a copy of all data from the main server.
They exist for redundancy and speed, and are spread all over the globe in strategic locations.
If you live in Sweden and use a mirror from Sweden, the download speed should be faster than if you used a mirror from Australia for example.
The point of mirrors is to choose the nearest one from your location, so you'll download packages as fast as possible.
Because a mirror can be down or broken for a short period of time or just forever, it's advised to have more than one mirror for each repository used by Nest.
If Nest can't reach a mirror, it will try with the next one in the list.

Only `stable` is enabled by default, so you'll have to uncomment the other repositories and their mirrors in order to use them.

You can also add an unofficial repository to this list, by following the same syntax shown above in the code excerpt.

## 3.2 Overview of the cache
Nest uses a cache to store an offline copy of the list of all available packages for Nest on the OS.
Nest can only install packages present in your cache.
That's why you need to **keep it up-to-date** before performing an operation with Nest.

There are 3 different folders for the cache:
* `/var/nest/available` contains the list of all available packages for Nest.
The content of this folder gets updated everytime you update your local cache with Nest.
* `/var/nest/downloaded` has all the packages that Nest has downloaded, whether they are installed or not.
If you installed a package before, and then uninstalled it, Nest will keep its archive there, in case you change your mind and want to install that same version of the same package later.
This allows Nest to speed up the process of installation, as it doesn't have to download the same archive again.
* `/var/nest/installed` contains informations about the packages currently installed on the OS.

## 3.3 Version requirement
Sometimes you need a specific version of a package, not just the latest one.
Version requirements solve this problem by allowing you to specify a minimum or maximum version.

The system used for the version of packages is [semver](https://semver.org/).

The operators you can use for this are `<`, `<=`, `==`, `>=`, `>`, `~`, `^` and `*`:

* The first five of them are pretty self-explanatory.
* The `~` means any version that is superior or equal to the one you specified, but it must have the same major and minor versions.
* The `^` stands for any version that is superior or equal to the one you specified, but it must have the same major version.
Although there are special cases with `^`:
    * `^0.x.x`, which is equivalent to `~0.x.x`.
    * `^0.0.x`, which is equivalent to `=0.0.x`.

For example:
* `stable::kernel/linux#>= 4.1.8` matches a version superior or equal to 4.1.8 of the package `linux` in the category `kernel` of the repository `stable`.
* `dash<0.5.1` matches any version strictly inferior to 0.5.1 of the package dash.

> Note
>
> When Nest installs a package from a version requirement, it installs the latest version available that matches this requirement.
