nest/03.advanced_concepts.md, before:

# 3 Advanced concepts
In this chapter, we will detail some advanced concepts related to `nest`, which will help understanding how `nest` works, but aren't strictly needed for a daily use of `nest`.
On the other hand, readers interested in `finest` should read this chapter, because those concepts are important to understand how `finest` works.

## 3.1 Managing repositories
### 3.1.1 The official repositories
The official repositories are the ones maintained by the Raven-OS team.
For now, only one is available: `stable`, which is the one enabled by default when installing Nest.
It contains all the stable and safe-to-use packages for Nest, and is maintained by the Raven-OS team.

### 3.1.2 The unofficial repositories
There are also unofficial repositories for Nest.
They are not being maintained by the Raven-OS team or someone trusted by the team.
You must decide whether to trust their maintainers and take full responsibility for any consequences of using any unofficial repository.

### 3.1.3 Configuring repositories
The repositories configuration is in the `config.toml` file of Nest.
It would look something like this:

```toml
# Stable repository
[repositories.stable]
mirrors = ["https://stable.raven-os.org"]

# Beta repository (uncomment to enable)
# [repositories.beta]
# mirrors = ["https://beta.raven-os.org"]

# Nightly repository (uncomment to enable)
# [repositories.nightly]
# mirrors = ["https://nightly.raven-os.org"]
```

A mirror is basically a copy of all datas from the main server.
They exist for redundancy and speed.
Mirrors are spread all over the globe in strategic locations.
If you live in Sweden and use a mirror from Sweden, the download speed should be faster than if you used a mirror from Australia for example.
The point of mirrors is to choose the nearest one from your location, so you'll download packages as fast as possible.
It's advised to have several mirrors for each repository Nest uses, because a mirror can be down or broken for a small period of time, or just be down forever.
If Nest can't reach a mirror, it will try with the next one in the list.

Only `stable` is enabled by default, so you'll have to uncomment the other repositories and their mirrors in order to use them.

You can also add an unofficial repository to this list, by following the same syntax shown above in the code excerpt.

## 3.2 Overview of the cache
Nest is using a cache to store a copy of the list of all available packages for Nest on the OS.
Nest can only install packages present in your cache.
That's why you need to **keep it up-to-date as often as possible**, otherwise Nest won't install new versions of packages that came out on Nest's server.

There are 3 different folders for the cache:
* `/var/nest/available` contains the list of all available packages for Nest.
The content of this folder gets updated everytime you update your local cache with Nest.
* `/var/nest/downloaded` has all the packages that Nest has downloaded, whether they are installed or not.
If you installed a package before, and then uninstalled it, Nest will keep its archive there, in case you change your mind and want to install that same version of the same package later.
This allows Nest to speed up the process of installation, as it doesn't have to download the same archive again.
* `/var/nest/installed` contains all the packages that are currently installed on the OS.

## 3.3 Version requirement
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 1.4)
As explained in [the section 1.4](), the packages have a specific syntax regarding their name.
A thing that wasn't mentionned at the time was that you can have requirement(s) on the version of the package you want to install.

For example:
* `stable::kernel/linux#>= 4.1.8` corresponds to a version superior or equal to 4.1.8 of the package `linux` in the category `kernel` of the repository `stable`.
* `dash<0.5.1` correponds to a version strictly inferior to 0.5.1 of the package dash.

> Note
>
> When Nest installs a package from a version requirement, it installs the latest version available that matches this requirement.

Commit message:

Rephrased sentences, added semver link, explained operators

nest/03.advanced_concepts.md, after:

# 3 Advanced concepts
In this chapter, we will detail some advanced concepts related to `nest`, which will help understanding how `nest` works, but aren't strictly needed for a daily use of `nest`.
Readers interested in `finest` should read this chapter, because those concepts are important to understand how `finest` works.

## 3.1 Managing repositories
### 3.1.1 The official repositories
The official repositories are the ones maintained by the Raven-OS team.
For now, only one is available: `stable`, which is the one enabled by default when installing Nest.
It contains all the stable and safe-to-use packages for Nest, and is maintained by the Raven-OS team.

### 3.1.2 The unofficial repositories
There are also unofficial repositories for Nest.
These repositories are not vetted by Raven-OS, so caution is advised.
It is up to you to decide whether to trust their maintainers.

### 3.1.3 Configuring repositories
The repositories configuration is in the `config.toml` file of Nest.
It should ressemble something like this:

```toml
# Stable repository
[repositories.stable]
mirrors = ["https://stable.raven-os.org"]

# Beta repository (uncomment to enable)
# [repositories.beta]
# mirrors = ["https://beta.raven-os.org"]

# Nightly repository (uncomment to enable)
# [repositories.nightly]
# mirrors = ["https://nightly.raven-os.org"]
```

A mirror is basically a copy of all data from the main server.
They exist for redundancy and speed.
Mirrors are spread all over the globe in strategic locations.
If you live in Sweden and use a mirror from Sweden, the download speed should be faster than if you used a mirror from Australia for example.
The point of mirrors is to choose the nearest one from your location, so you'll download packages as fast as possible.
It's advised to have several mirrors for each repository Nest uses, because a mirror can be down or broken for a small period of time, or just be down forever.
If Nest can't reach a mirror, it will try with the next one in the list.

Only `stable` is enabled by default, so you'll have to uncomment the other repositories and their mirrors in order to use them.

You can also add an unofficial repository to this list, by following the same syntax shown above in the code excerpt.

## 3.2 Overview of the cache
Nest uses a cache to store a copy of the list of all available packages for Nest on the OS.
Nest can only install packages present in your cache.
That's why you need to **keep it up-to-date** before performing an operation with Nest.

There are 3 different folders for the cache:
* `/var/nest/available` contains the list of all available packages for Nest.
The content of this folder gets updated everytime you update your local cache with Nest.
* `/var/nest/downloaded` has all the packages that Nest has downloaded, whether they are installed or not.
If you installed a package before, and then uninstalled it, Nest will keep its archive there, in case you change your mind and want to install that same version of the same package later.
This allows Nest to speed up the process of installation, as it doesn't have to download the same archive again.
* `/var/nest/installed` contains all the packages that are currently installed on the OS.

## 3.3 Version requirement
Sometimes you need a specific version of a package, not just the latest one.
Version requirements solve this problem by allowing you to specify a minimum or maximum version.

The operators you can use for this are `<`, `<=`, `==`, `>=`, `>` and `*`. The last one simply means 'any' version.

The system used for the version of packages is [semver](https://semver.org/).

For example:
* `stable::kernel/linux#>= 4.1.8` corresponds to a version superior or equal to 4.1.8 of the package `linux` in the category `kernel` of the repository `stable`.
* `dash<0.5.1` correponds to a version strictly inferior to 0.5.1 of the package dash.

> Note
>
> When Nest installs a package from a version requirement, it installs the latest version available that matches this requirement.
