# 4 finest
As explained throughout this getting-started, `finest` is the command targeted towards experienced users.

## 4.1 Key concepts
Before using `finest`, you have to understand how it works on a deeper level.
`finest` relies on 4 key concepts:
* The cache
* Transactions
* The dependency graph
* Groups

### 4.1.1 The cache
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.2)
The cache was explained in [the section 3.2]().

### 4.1.2 Transactions
A transaction is an *action of `finest` on the filesystem*.
A transaction can be, for example, removing or upgrading a package.

### 4.1.3 The dependency graph
The dependency graph is a directed graph representing the dependencies of packages.
In this graph, each node is either **a group of packages**, either **a single package**.
Each node has a requirement that is fulfilled by another node.
A requirement can be fulfilled by **one** and only **one** package.
A requirement is noted as `repository::category/package#[version|version_requirement]`.

The dependency graph contains a root node named `@root`.
Using `finest`, you can add or remove requirements from any node you want.
You can't add a node without it having a parent node, so it will be `@root` by default.

When you're done making your transactions with `finest`, you have to solve the dependency graph.
`finest` has applied those transactions on a copy of your dependency graph, and when you solve it, it's actually *merging* that copy with the graph currently used by the OS.

### 4.1.4 Groups
A group is basically a group of packages.
Groups are a great way to manage very easily packages used for the same purpose.
For example, if you're working on a school project, you can create a group containing all the packages you need for this purpose.
Once your project is over, you can safely delete this group, which will remove all the packages inside it, on the condition that those packages only exist in this group, and not any other one.

> Note
>
> Group names always start with the character `@`.

### 4.1.5 Example of dependency graph transactions

Let's say you want to install the package `dash` through the command line, without specifying any version.
It will be resolved as the requirement `stable::sys-devel/dash#*`.
You dependency graph will look like this:

```
@root
├─ stable::sys-devel/dash#*
├─ ...
└─ ...
```

`finest` will try to find a way to fulfill this requirement.
Since no version was specified, it will find the latest version available, let's say 0.5.10.
So you'll find a new node in your graph:

```
@root
├─ stable::sys-devel/dash#*
|   └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-devel/dash#0.5.10
└─ ...
```

Now, for the sake of the example, let's say this version of `dash` depends on any version of the package `glibc`, which has a major version superior or equal to 1.
It's going to add a new requirement to the graph, which will be fulfilled by, for example, `stable::sys-devel/glibc#1.8.1`.

```
@root
├─ stable::sys-devel/dash#*
|   └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-devel/dash#0.5.10
|      └─ stable::sys-lib/glibc#>=1
|         └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-lib/glibc#1.8.1
|            └─ and so on, until there are no depedencies left
└─ ...
```

Now, if you want to create a group of packages, the graph would then look like so:

```
@root
├─ stable::sys-devel/dash#*
|   └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-devel/dash#0.5.10
|      └─ stable::sys-lib/glibc#>=2
|         └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-lib/glibc#2.0.1
|            └─ and so on, until there are no depedencies left
├─ @Group1
|  ├─ requirement1
|  |  └─ fullfiled by package1  
|  └─ requirement2
|     └─ fulfilled by package2
└─ ...
```

## 4.2 finest commands
### 4.2.1 Managing packages through requirements
#### Add a requirement
The command `finest requirement add <requirement> [--parent <group>]` adds a requirement to a group.
By default, this group is `@root`.
With the `--parent` flag, you can speficy a parent group.

When adding a requirement, `finest` makes a copy of your current dependency graph (if a copy wasn't already available), adds that requirement to its parent and fulfills the dependencies of the package recursively.

Its output looks like this:

```
$ finest requirement add linux
Adding requirement stable::kernel/linux#* to group @root...
```

#### Remove a requirement
`finest requirement remove <requirement> [--parent <group>]` removes a requirement from a group.
The group is, by default, `@root`, but you can specify a parent group with the flag `--parent`.

When removing a requirement, `finest` makes a copy of your current dependency graph (if a copy wasn't already made), removes that requirement from its parent and removes its depedencies recursively if possible.

Its output is similar to this:

```
$ finest requirement remove linux --parent @work
Removing requirement stable::kernel/linux#* to group @work...
```

#### Common issues
* `error: no package found for requirement <req>`

You can check on [Raven-OS website](https://stable.raven-os.org/) to check which repository and which category the packages belong to.

### 4.2.2 Updating the system by merging the depedency graph
#### Merging the dependency graph
`finest merge` merges the copy of your dependency graph, on which `finest` applied the transactions, to your current dependency graph.
These two graphs are compared to extract a list of transactions that `finest` will perform, in order to go from one graph to another.
And so, your dependency graph will finally apply the transactions you meant to do.

Example:
```
2 pending transactions:

 install stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96
 remove stable::sys-devel/glibc#2.0.1

Would you like to apply these transactions? [Yes/no] Y
Downloading stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96...
Successfully installed stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96
Removing stable::sys-devel/glibc#2.0.1...
Successfully uninstalled stable::sys-devel/glibc#2.0.1
```

> Important
>
> Never forget to run `finest merge` after you're done with your transactions, or they won't be applied on the system

### 4.2.3 Managing groups
#### Create a group
Creating a group is possible via the command `finest group create <name> [--parent <group>]`.
It's very important to keep in mind that a group name always starts with a `@` character.
By default, this will create a group as a child of the group `@root` if no parent group is provided.

Example:
```
$ finest group add @groupName
Adding group @groupName with parent group @root...
Successfully added all the specified groups.
```

#### Delete a group
In the same manner as creating a group, you can delete one with the command `finest group remove <name> [--parent <group>]`.

Example:
```
$ finest group remove @WorkGroup1
Removing group @WorkGroup1...
Successfully removed all the specified groups.
```

#### List the groups
To list all the groups on the OS, use `finest group list`.

Example:
```
$ finest group list
@root
@WorkGroup2
@SuperCoolProject
```

## 4.3 Summary
This concludes the part of this getting-started dedicated to `finest`.
What's left after this is a cheat sheet summarizing all the commands of both Nest binaries, and a glossary explaining the concepts and commands mentioned throughout this getting-started.