# 6 Glossary

## A

## B

## C
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.2)
* Cache [section 3.2]()

In Nest, the cache is a local copy of the list of available [packages]() from Raven-OS server.
The cache has to be kept up-to-date in order to install the latest versions of the packages.

* Category

[//]: # (TODO: add links to the 'repository' and 'package' entry of this glossary)
Inside each [repository](), there are several categories.
The [packages]() are split between the repositories and their categories.
Each package name must be unique in a category of a repository, but there can be several packages with the same name spread in several categories.

## D
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 1.2)
* Dependency [section 1.2]()

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
A dependency is a [package]() A that is required by a package B, so that the package B can function properly.

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 4.1.3)
* Dependency graph/Dependency tree [section 4.1.3]()

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
The dependency graph is a directed graph (i.e. a graph with directed connections) representing the dependencies between [packages]().
## E

## F
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the chapter 4)
* `finest` [chapter 4]()

`finest` is the binary of Nest targeted towards experienced users.

* `finest group create <name> [--parent <group>]`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'group' entry of this glossary)
The command of `finest` to create a [group](), with `@root` as a parent by default.

* `finest group list`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'group' entry of this glossary)
The command of `finest` to list all [groups]() on the OS.

* `finest group remove <name> [--parent <group>]`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'group' entry of this glossary)
The command of `finest` to remove a [group](), with `@root` as a parent by default.

* `finest merge`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'Dependency graph' and 'transaction' entries of this glossary)
The command of `finest` to merge the [dependency graph]() `finest` altered with the [transactions]() you applied, with the dependency graph currently in use by the OS.

* `finest requirement add <requirement> [--parent <group>]`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'requirement' and 'group' entries of this glossary)
The comand of `finest` to add a [requirement]() to a [group](), by default `@root`.

* `finest requirement remove <requirement> [--parent <group>]`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'requirement' and 'group' entries of this glossary)
The command of `finest` to remove a [requirement]() from a [group](), by default `@root`.

## G
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 4.1.4)
* Groups [section 4.1.4]()

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
Groups are a way to group [packages]() together, in order to install and uninstall them in a more efficient manner.
## H

## I

## J

## K

## L

## M
* Mirror

A mirror is a server with a copy of all the data from a main server.

## N
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the chapter 2)
* Nest [chapter 2]()

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package manager' entry of this glossary)
Nest is a dependency-based [package manager]() for Raven-OS.
It consists of two binaries: `nest` and `finest`.

* `nest`

The binary of Nest mainly targeted towards newcomers.

* `nest install <package>`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
The command of `nest` to install a [package]().

* `nest list`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
The command of `nest` to list all installed [packages].

* `nest pull`

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
The command of `nest` to update the list of available [packages] that you can install with Nest.

* `nest uninstall <package>`

The command of `nest` to uninstall a package.

## O

## P
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 1.1)
* Package [section 1.1]()

A package is a compressed file archive containing all the files required to install, uninstall and update a particular software or application.

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 1.1)
* Package manager [section 1.1]()

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
A package manager allows the user to install, upgrade or remove software [packages]() on their OS, in other words, to manage packages.

## Q

## R
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 1.3)
* Repository [section 1.3]()

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' and 'category' entries of this glossary)
A repository contains [packages].
In each repository used by Nest, there are several [categories]().

* Requirement

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'dependency graph', 'package' and 'dependency' entries of this glossary)
Each node of the [dependency graph]() has a requirement that is fulfilled by another node.
A requirement is a [dependency]() that can be fulfilled by one and only one [package](), and is noted as `repository::category/package#[version|version_requirement]`.

## S
* `stable` repository

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
The `stable` repository contains all the stable [packages]() that are safe to use, and is maintained by the Raven-OS team.

## T
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 4.1.2)
* Transactions [section 4.1.2]()

[//]: # (TODO:: add link to the 'package' entry of this glossary)
A transaction is an action of Nest on the filesystem.
It can be, for example, installing or upgrading a [package]().

## U

## V
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.3)
* Version requirement [section 3.3]()

[//]: # (TODO:: add link to the 'transaction' entry of this glossary)
A version requirement allows the user to put prerequisites on a package version to perform the intended [transaction]().

## W

## X

## Y

## Z