# 2 Build Manifests
A build manifest is a set of instructions that fetches, compiles and splits a software into one or more packages. It is typically made of three main parts:
* A set of metadata used as a reference for the metadata of the built packages
* A list of versions and a corresponding set of data, one per version, called the versionized arguments of a build
* A list of instructions (taking the form of a python function) that builds the packages

## 2.1 Writing a build manifest
### 2.1.1 The `@manifest` decorator
The `@manifest` decorator requires several parameters:
* `name` is the name of the software being built.
* `category` is the category the built packages belong to.
The category should be in `snake-case`.
* `description` is a short description of what this package is for, what it does, etc.
It should start with an uppercase letter and finish with a dot.
* `tags` are a list of tags helping a user to find the built packages easily.
Each tag should be in `snake-case`.
* `maintainer` is the email address of the maintainer of this build manifest.
* `licenses` are the software license(s) of this package.
* `upstream_url` is the URL pointing to the home page of the software.
* `kind` is the kind of packages
* `versions_data` is the versionized list of arguments.

#### 2.1.1.1 Effective and virtual packages
Two kinds of packages are possible: **effective** and **virtual**.

A **Virtual** package is a package with no data, only listing its dependencies.

An **Effective** package is, on the contrary, a package with data.

#### 2.1.1.2 `versions_data`
`versions_data` is a list, in which each entry represent a new version of the software.
The entries are a dictionary holding the build's arguments for each version.

It must have a key named `semver` that holds the version number, following [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html). All the remaining pairs of key/value can be used freely: some functions of the standard compilation library may use them as generic, version-agnostic arguments.

For example, the function [stdlib.fetch.fetch()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.fetch.html#stdlib.fetch.fetch) can be used to download files (like the source code) before building a software. It looks for an entry named `fetch` in `versions_data` that contains the elements needed to download a file (like its URL, its hash, etc.).

Here's an example of a `versions_data` for a build manifest supporting two versions (1.0.0 and 1.1.0) of the software, and uses the function [stdlib.fetch.fetch()`](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.fetch.html#stdlib.fetch.fetch) to download the source code:

```
[
    {
        'semver': '1.0.0',
        'fetch': [{
                'url': 'http://example.com/dl/hello_world_1.0.0.tar.gz',
                'sha256': '5891b5b522d5df086d0ff0b110fbd9d21bb4fc7163af34d08286a2e846f6be03',
            }
        ],
    },
    {
        'semver': '1.1.0',
        'fetch': [{
                'url': 'http://example.com/dl/hello_world_1.1.0.tar.gz',
                'sha256': 'e258d248fda94c63753607f7c4494ee0fcbe92f1a76bfdac795c9d84101eb317',
            },
        ]
    }
]
```

## 2.2 Uploading packages to an official or unofficial Raven-OS server
### 2.2.1 To an official Raven-OS server
Building a package with `nbuild` has no incidence on the official repositories.
To upload a package on one of Raven-OS official server, you will have to build it using [`build-raven-os-org`](https://build.raven-os.org), which will push the built packages on the repository [`unstable`](https://unstable.raven-os.org).
The Raven-OS team will then take care of moving the packages considered safe enough to the repository [`beta`](https://beta.raven-os.org), and then to the repository [`stable`](https://stable.raven-os.org).

### 2.2.2 To an unofficial Raven-OS server
If you prefer not hosting your packages on one of Raven-OS offcial server but still want Raven-OS users to be able to use them, you can host your packages on your own instance of [Nest Server](https://github.com/raven-os/nest-server).

## 2.3 `npf-checker`
`npf-checker` is a checker that ensures the validity and conformance of an npf file.
It will basically unpack it in a cache directory, fix the issues it found or let you fix them yourself, and repack it.
It will be repacked as a new npf file called `[old_filename].new` and located in the same folder as the one you passed to `npf-checker`.

As for its flags:
* `-c` or `--cache-dir` to change the cache directory used by `npf-checker`, which is `cache/` by default.
* `--visual` to use visual tools to fix the issues `npf-cheker` found yourself.
It looks for the `visual` environment variable on your system and uses the software associated with it.

When `npf-checker` finds an error in an npf file, it will let you choose between three options: fixing the error for you, showing the alterations it plans to make to fix this error, and letting you fix it yourself.

Here is an exhaustive list of the errors `npf-checker` can find and fix for you:
* The dynamic libraries and executables, respectively in `'./usr/lib{32,64}/**/'` and `'./usr/{,s}bin/**/'`, should have execution permissions.
* The decription in the `manifest.toml` should start with an uppercase letter and end with a dot.
* The prerequisites of the dependencies in the `manifest.toml` should be solvable.
If not, there are two possible cases:
    * if the package name in the prerequisite doesn't exist, it will remove this prerequisite
    * if the package exists, but the version prerequisite is not solvable, it will replace it with the latest version available
* The `virtual` packages must not contain any `data.tar.gz` and the `effective` ones must have it.
Two errors can occur:
    * `virutal` package with a `data.tar.gz`: it will change the kind of the package to `effective`
    * `effective` package with no `data.tar.gz`: you should either edit the `manifest.toml` or add files to the package

However, there is one error that `npf-checker` can find but won't fix for you:
* The version of the package should be in the right format, which is [semver](https://semver.org), in the `manifest.toml`.
`npf-checker` cannot fix this error, as it cannot guess which version you had in mind if it doesn't follow semver.

Example:

This npf only contains a `manfest.toml`, but has `effective` as its kind.
`npf-checker` will find this error, and for the sake of this example, let's say you'll let `npf-checker` fix that error itself.
```
$ tar xvf tests/readline-8.1.0.nest.EFFECTIVE_NO_DATA
manifest.toml
$ cat manifest.toml
```
```TOML
name = "readline"
category = "sys-lib"
version = "8.1.0"
kind = "effective"
wrap_date = "2019-06-01T16:39:00Z"

[metadata]
description = "The GNU Readline library provides a set of functions for use by applications that allow users to edit command lines as they are typed in."
tags = [ "GNU", "library"]
maintainer = "firstname.lastname@mailprovider.com"
licenses = [ "gpl_v3",]
upstream_url = "https://tiswww.case.edu/php/chet/readline/rltop.html"

[dependencies]
"stable::sys-lib/libc6" = "*"
```

```
$ ./npf-checker.py cool_folder/readline-8.1.0.nest.EFFECTIVE_NO_DATA
[+]  Unwrapping tests/readline-8.1.0.nest.EFFECTIVE_NO_DATA
[+]  Checking tests/readline-8.1.0.nest.EFFECTIVE_NO_DATA
[+]  Checking files execute permission
[+]  Checking package description
[+]  Checking the description of the package
[+]  Checking package kind
[-]          Package is effective but is missing a data.tar.gz
[*]          The automatic changes would be as follows
[*]              Package kind would be changed to virtual
[?]              Accept those changes? [Y/n/e] Y
[+]  Checking package version
[+]  Wrapping tests/readline-8.1.0.nest.EFFECTIVE_NO_DATA
[+]  Manifest:
[+]      name: readline
[+]      category: sys-lib
[+]      version: 8.1.0
[+]      description: The GNU Readline library provides a set of functions for use by applications that allow users to edit command lines as they are typed in.
[+]      tags: GNU, library
[+]      maintainer: firstname.lastname@mailprovider.com
[+]      licenses: gpl_v3
[+]      upstream_url: https://tiswww.case.edu/php/chet/readline/rltop.html
[+]      kind: virtual
[+]      wrap_date: 2019-07-28T18:59:21Z
[+]      dependencies:
[+]          stable::sys-lib/libc6#*
[*]  Ignoring data.tar.gz creation phase because package is virtual
[+]  New nest file is located at cool_folder/readline-8.1.0.nest.EFFECTIVE_NO_DATA.new
```