# 3 The templates
Templates are functions that provide a default, configurable and extendable way to build packages of a certain type.
There are different kinds of templates:
* **Partial templates** are templates that provide only a chunk of the overall build process, like a template that wraps a specific build system but doesn't download any source code or generate any package.
They are usually used as a sub-part of an **exhaustive template**.
* **Exhaustive templates** are templates that provide all the steps involved in the building process, like downloading the source code, building it, generating the packages, managing dependencies, etc.

## 3.1 `autotools`
[`autotools`](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.template.autotools.html#module-stdlib.template.autotools) is an **exhaustive template** that downloads, builds and wraps a software based on `autoconf` and `make`.
It is made of 9 steps:
* `fetch`
* `extract`
* `patch`
* `configure`
* `compile`
* `check`
* `install`
* `split`
* `dependency linking`

A function is called for each of these steps and this template calls each of them in the above order.
All these functions can be given as arguments, but they all have a default value (explained below). If a function is `None`, its step is skipped.

### Fetch
This step is used to download the source code. The default value is fetch() with no argument.

### Extract
This step is used to extract the downloaded source code. The default value is [flat_extract_all()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.extract.html#stdlib.extract.flat_extract_all) with no argument.

### Patch
This step is used to patch the downloaded source code.
The default value is [patch_all()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.patch.html#stdlib.patch.patch_all) with no argument.

* From now on, the current working directory is changed in favor of build_folder (which defaults to `.`).
If the directory pointed by build_folder doesn’t exist, it is created.
This is useful for the few configure scripts that don’t work if they aren’t executed in a standalone directory.

### Configure
This step uses the `configure` script to configure the source code.
The default value is [configure()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.template.configure.html#stdlib.template.configure.configure) with no argument.

When `build_folder` isn’t `.`, it is usually necessary to override this step with an other call to [configure()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.template.configure.html#stdlib.template.configure.configure) with the argument `binary='../configure'`.

### Compile
This step compiles the source code.
The default value is [make()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.template.make.html#stdlib.template.make.make) with no argument.

### Check
This step runs the unit and integration tests.
The default value is [make()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.template.make.html#stdlib.template.make.make) with the arguments `'check'` and `fail_ok=True`.

### Install
This step installs the software in the install cache.
The default value is [make()](https://docs.raven-os.org/nbuild/master/stdlib.template.make.html#stdlib.template.make.make) with the arguments `'install'` and `f'DESTDIR={stdlib.build.current_build().install_cache}'`.

If this step is overwriten, the `DESTDIR` variable is crucial and should be reused.
Otherwise, and unless the `configure` script has been configured to work without it, the installation can damage and overwrite parts of the host system.

### Split
This step is still a work in progress.
The default value is `None`.

### Dependency linking
This step is still a work in progress.
The default value is `None`.

## 3.2 Examples of build manifests overwriting the templates
### 3.2.1 Overwriting `autotools`
The manifest of glibc is a good example showing how the steps `extract`, `install` and `split` from the `autotools` template can be overwriten.
It's hosted [here](https://github.com/raven-os/nbuild-manifests/blob/master/sys-libs/glibc/glibc.py).

Another example, overwriting the `install` step, is the manifest of linux, which you can find [here](https://github.com/raven-os/nbuild-manifests/blob/e58a07d9ac1d3e1bd761ae264269d1e308260936/kernel/linux/linux.py)

### 3.2.2 Other templates
At the time of writing, there's only one template: `autotools`. In the future, we plan to add more.